feat(pie-docs): DSW-2100 add overview page and assets (#1573)
justeattakeaway/pie: apps/pie-docs/src/patterns/haptic-feedback/guidance/guidance.md

---
eleventyNavigation:
    key: Guidance
    parent: 'Haptic Feedback'
    order: 2
shouldShowContents: true
---

## About our haptic feedback types

Our entire range of haptic feedback options relies on the system-default haptics provided by Apple in accordance with their [Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines).

{% notification {
  type: "warning",
  message: "Please note that our default haptic feedback types **cannot be overridden or altered**."
} %}

---

## Soft haptic feedback

Soft haptic feedback can serve various purposes in order to enhance the overall user experience in a subtle and nuanced manner.

{% contentPageImage {
  src:"../../../../assets/img/patterns/haptic-feedback/soft-haptic-feedback.svg",

>   alt: "Visual representation of soft haptic feedback.",

Reviewer: I asked chatgtp for ideas for this alt text 😄 not sure if it conveys more meaning, so take this as a suggestion and if sounds weird we can leave it as it is. Adding the text for all haptic images:
"Vertical short orange bar intersected by a horizontal line, representing a single haptic feedback signal."
"Vertical long orange bar intersected by a horizontal line, indicating single haptic feedback signal."
"Two vertical orange bars, one short the next long, placed side by side and intersected by a horizontal line, symbolizing multiple haptic feedback signals."
"Two vertical orange bars, one longe the next short, placed side by side and intersected by a horizontal line, symbolizing multiple haptic feedback signals."
"Four vertical orange bars, the third one longer than the others, placed side by side and intersected by a horizontal line, symbolizing stronger haptic feedback signals."

Author: I think it's good idea to add more meaning to alt texts, I would only add some changes. If you are happy with these changes, I can add them to the code @maledr5 
- "Vertical short orange bar intersected by a horizontal line, representing `soft` haptic feedback signal."
- "Vertical long orange bar intersected by a horizontal line, indicating `medium` haptic feedback signal."
- "Two vertical orange bars, one short the next long, placed side by side and intersected by a horizontal line, representing `success` haptic feedback signals."
- "Two vertical orange bars, one longer, the next short, placed side-by-side and intersected by a horizontal line, representing `warning` haptic feedback signals."
- "Four vertical orange bars, the third one longer than the others, placed side by side and intersected by a horizontal line, symbolizing `error` haptic feedback signals."

>   alt: "Vertical short orange bar intersected by a horizontal line, representing soft haptic feedback signal.",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  alt: "A short vertical orange bar, representing a soft haptic feedback signal.",
```

  width: "344px"
} %}

#### Where can I use soft haptic feedback?

{% list {
    type: listTypes.icon,
    iconName: "check-circle",
    items: [
        "**Button presses:** Provide a gentle confirmation for various button presses to acknowledge user input without being intrusive.",
        "**Toggle and state changes:** Convey changes in toggle switches or activation of different states in the UI with a moderately pronounced haptic sensation.",
        "**Dynamic adjustments:** Provide users with tactile feedback when making dynamic adjustments, such as using sliders, to indicate significant changes.",
        "**Non-critical notifications:** Use soft haptic feedback for non-critical notifications to gently alert users without causing disruption.",
        "**Subtle transitions:** Enhance subtle transitions or animations between UI elements for a smooth and cohesive experience.",
        "**Incremental adjustments:** Offer soft haptic feedback for incremental adjustments, like scrolling or volume control, to provide a sense of granularity."
    ]
} %}

---

## Medium haptic feedback

> A medium-intensity haptic feedback which can convey a sense of importance and grab the user's attention. A good example of this might be the haptic feedback that occurs when a user navigates to a new screen, commonly known as a "screen transition haptic", which is designed to provide a tactile confirmation of the navigation action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Medium-intensity haptic feedback can convey a sense of importance and grab the user's attention. A good example of this might be the haptic feedback that occurs when a user navigates to a new screen, commonly known as a "screen transition haptic", which is designed to provide a tactile confirmation of the navigation action.
```

{% contentPageImage {
  src:"../../../../assets/img/patterns/haptic-feedback/medium-haptic-feedback.svg",

>   alt: "Vertical long orange bar intersected by a horizontal line, indicating medium haptic feedback signal.",

Reviewer 2: I don't think the horizontal line adds any additional context that is beneficial to the user's understanding of the image.

I would also prefer describing the bars as "tall" and "short". Using "long" is ambiguous because length could refer to the duration of the haptic.
```suggestion
  alt: "A tall vertical orange bar indicating a medium-strength haptic feedback signal.",
```

  width: "344px"
} %}

#### Where can I use medium haptic feedback?

{% list {
    type: listTypes.icon,
    iconName: "check-circle",
    items: [
        "**Important actions:** Reinforce the significance of actions such as submitting a form, making a purchase, or saving changes with a medium level of haptic feedback.",
        "**Gesture recognition:** Use medium haptic feedback to confirm the recognition of gestures, such as pinch-to-zoom or swipe gestures."
    ]
} %}

---

## Success haptic feedback

> A medium-intensity haptic feedback used to highlight a confirmation of an action. You can use it for the successful submission of a form or completion of a task, providing users with a reassuring response.

Reviewer 2: Using "feedback" on its own like this feels a bit unnatural because it's usually an uncountable noun, and here it's being used as a countable noun ("a ... feedback").
```suggestion
A medium-intensity haptic response used to highlight the confirmation of an action. You can use it for the successful submission of a form or completion of a task, providing users with a reassuring response.
```

  alt: "Two vertical orange bars, one short the next long, placed side by side and intersected by a horizontal line, representing success haptic feedback signals.",
  width: "344px"
} %}

#### Where can I use success haptic feedback?

{% list {
    type: listTypes.icon,
    iconName: "check-circle",
    items: [
        "**Task completion:** Use success haptic feedback to celebrate the successful completion of a task or operation, providing positive reinforcement.",
        "**Confirmation of positive events:** Accompany positive events, such as successful transactions or the completion of a level in a game, with success haptic feedback.",
        "**Goal achievement:** Celebrate users reaching specific milestones or goals within an app or gamified experience with success haptic feedback."
    ]
} %}

---

## Warning haptic feedback

They can be strategically used in various scenarios where it's essential to alert users to critical information or potential issues that demand their attention before they actually happen.

{% contentPageImage {
  src:"../../../../assets/img/patterns/haptic-feedback/warning-haptic-feedback.svg",

>   alt: "Two vertical orange bars, one longer, the next short, placed side-by-side and intersected by a horizontal line, representing warning haptic feedback signals.",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  alt: "Two vertical orange bars - one tall, the next shorter - stood side-by-side, representing the warning haptic feedback pattern.",
```

  width: "344px"
} %}

#### Where can I use warning haptic feedback?

{% list {
    type: listTypes.icon,
    iconName: "check-circle",
    items: [
        "**Alerts and warnings:** Use warning haptic feedback to highlight critical information or alerts that require users' attention but are not urgent.",
        "**Potential issues:** Signal potential issues or warnings that users need to be aware of, such as incomplete form entries or system warnings.",
        "**Near limits:** Provide warning haptic feedback when users are approaching or exceeding certain limits, such as character count or storage capacity."
    ]
} %}

---

## Error haptic feedback

> A strong, noticeable vibration. You can use them when an error occurs or an invalid action is attempted, signalling to the user that corrective action is needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A strong, noticeable vibration. You can use this when an error occurs or an invalid action is attempted, signalling to the user that corrective action is needed.
```

{% contentPageImage {
  src:"../../../../assets/img/patterns/haptic-feedback/error-haptic-feedback.svg",

>   alt: "Four vertical orange bars, the third one longer than the others, placed side by side and intersected by a horizontal line, symbolizing error haptic feedback signals.",

Reviewer 2: Actually I'm starting to wonder if it's best to just describe the haptic feedback pattern, i.e., four vibrations with the third being stronger, and the fourth longer (is this right?), rather than describing the image itself.

Author: @xander-marjoram mb will be better to get descriptions from official resources https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics?

- Soft notification haptics indicates a collision between soft or flexible UI objects.
- Medium notification haptics indicates a collision between medium-sized or medium-weight UI objects.
- Success notification haptics indicates that a task or action has completed.
- Warning notification haptics indicates a task or action has produced a warning of some kind.
- Error notification haptics indicates that an error has occurred.

Author: @maledr5 what do you think about these alt texts? Can I leave them as it is here? or will be better to change smth?

> mb will be better to get descriptions from official resource https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/playing-haptics#Notification?
> 
> * Soft notification haptics indicates a collision between soft or flexible UI objects.
> * Medium notification haptics indicates a collision between medium-sized or medium-weight UI objects.
> * Success notification haptics indicates that a task or action has completed.
> * Warning notification haptics indicates a task or action has produced a warning of some kind.
> * Error notification haptics indicates that an error has occurred.

Reviewer: Hey, @xander-marjoram @leksaBoiko what do you think if we leave the text as images descriptors for now and bring the topic to the a11y guild, maybe Geri and Maryia have some knowledge of what is a good practice. I don't want to block this story so I am happy to open that discussion in the a11y guild and make changes after if any comes up.
